### E-3DGS: Gaussian Splatting with Exposure and Motion Events

Estimating Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) from images captured under optimal conditions has been extensively explored in the vision community. However, robotic applications often face challenges such as motion blur, insufficient illumination, and high computational overhead, which adversely affect downstream tasks like navigation, inspection, and scene visualization. To address these challenges, we propose E-3DGS, a novel event-based approach that partitions events into motion (from camera or object movement) and exposure (from camera exposure), using the former to handle fast-motion scenes and using the latter to reconstruct grayscale images for high-quality training and optimization of event-based 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS). We introduce a novel integration of 3DGS with exposure events for high-quality reconstruction of explicit scene representations. Our versatile framework can operate on motion events alone for 3D reconstruction, enhance quality using exposure events, or adopt a hybrid mode that balances quality and effectiveness by optimizing with initial exposure events followed by high-speed motion events. We also introduce EME-3D, a real-world 3D dataset with exposure events, motion events, camera calibration parameters, and sparse point clouds. Our method is faster and delivers better reconstruction quality than event-based NeRF while being more cost-effective than NeRF methods that combine event and RGB data by using a single event sensor. By combining motion and exposure events, E-3DGS sets a new benchmark for event-based 3D reconstruction with robust performance in challenging conditions and lower hardware demands. The source code and dataset will be available at https://github.com/MasterHow/E-3DGS.

