### ChatSplat: 3D Conversational Gaussian Splatting

Humans naturally interact with their 3D surroundings using language, and modeling 3D language fields for scene understanding and interaction has gained growing interest. This paper introduces ChatSplat, a system that constructs a 3D language field, enabling rich chat-based interaction within 3D space. Unlike existing methods that primarily use CLIP-derived language features focused solely on segmentation, ChatSplat facilitates interaction on three levels: objects, views, and the entire 3D scene. For view-level interaction, we designed an encoder that encodes the rendered feature map of each view into tokens, which are then processed by a large language model (LLM) for conversation. At the scene level, ChatSplat combines multi-view tokens, enabling interactions that consider the entire scene. For object-level interaction, ChatSplat uses a patch-wise language embedding, unlike LangSplat's pixel-wise language embedding that implicitly includes mask and embedding. Here, we explicitly decouple the language embedding into separate mask and feature map representations, allowing more flexible object-level interaction. To address the challenge of learning 3D Gaussians posed by the complex and diverse distribution of language embeddings used in the LLM, we introduce a learnable normalization technique to standardize these embeddings, facilitating effective learning. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that ChatSplat supports multi-level interactions -- object, view, and scene -- within 3D space, enhancing both understanding and engagement. 

