### Resolution-Robust 3D MRI Reconstruction with 2D Diffusion Priors: Diverse-Resolution Training Outperforms Interpolation

Deep learning-based 3D imaging, in particular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), is challenging because of limited availability of 3D training data. Therefore, 2D diffusion models trained on 2D slices are starting to be leveraged for 3D MRI reconstruction. However, as we show in this paper, existing methods pertain to a fixed voxel size, and performance degrades when the voxel size is varied, as it is often the case in clinical practice. In this paper, we propose and study several approaches for resolution-robust 3D MRI reconstruction with 2D diffusion priors. As a result of this investigation, we obtain a simple resolution-robust variational 3D reconstruction approach based on diffusion-guided regularization of randomly sampled 2D slices. This method provides competitive reconstruction quality compared to posterior sampling baselines. Towards resolving the sensitivity to resolution-shifts, we investigate state-of-the-art model-based approaches including Gaussian splatting, neural representations, and infinite-dimensional diffusion models, as well as a simple data-centric approach of training the diffusion model on several resolutions. Our experiments demonstrate that the model-based approaches fail to close the performance gap in 3D MRI. In contrast, the data-centric approach of training the diffusion model on various resolutions effectively provides a resolution-robust method without compromising accuracy.