### StructGS: Adaptive Spherical Harmonics and Rendering Enhancements for Superior 3D Gaussian Splatting

Recent advancements in 3D reconstruction coupled with neural rendering techniques have greatly improved the creation of photo-realistic 3D scenes, influencing both academic research and industry applications. The technique of 3D Gaussian Splatting and its variants incorporate the strengths of both primitive-based and volumetric representations, achieving superior rendering quality. While 3D Geometric Scattering (3DGS) and its variants have advanced the field of 3D representation, they fall short in capturing the stochastic properties of non-local structural information during the training process. Additionally, the initialisation of spherical functions in 3DGS-based methods often fails to engage higher-order terms in early training rounds, leading to unnecessary computational overhead as training progresses. Furthermore, current 3DGS-based approaches require training on higher resolution images to render higher resolution outputs, significantly increasing memory demands and prolonging training durations. We introduce StructGS, a framework that enhances 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) for improved novel-view synthesis in 3D reconstruction. StructGS innovatively incorporates a patch-based SSIM loss, dynamic spherical harmonics initialisation and a Multi-scale Residual Network (MSRN) to address the above-mentioned limitations, respectively. Our framework significantly reduces computational redundancy, enhances detail capture and supports high-resolution rendering from low-resolution inputs. Experimentally, StructGS demonstrates superior performance over state-of-the-art (SOTA) models, achieving higher quality and more detailed renderings with fewer artifacts.

