### Volume Encoding Gaussians: Transfer Function-Agnostic 3D Gaussians for Volume Rendering

While HPC resources are increasingly being used to produce adaptively refined or unstructured volume datasets, current research in applying machine learning-based representation to visualization has largely ignored this type of data. To address this, we introduce Volume Encoding Gaussians (VEG), a novel 3D Gaussian-based representation for scientific volume visualization focused on unstructured volumes. Unlike prior 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) methods that store view-dependent color and opacity for each Gaussian, VEG decouple the visual appearance from the data representation by encoding only scalar values, enabling transfer-function-agnostic rendering of 3DGS models for interactive scientific visualization. VEG are directly initialized from volume datasets, eliminating the need for structure-from-motion pipelines like COLMAP. To ensure complete scalar field coverage, we introduce an opacity-guided training strategy, using differentiable rendering with multiple transfer functions to optimize our data representation. This allows VEG to preserve fine features across the full scalar range of a dataset while remaining independent of any specific transfer function. Each Gaussian is scaled and rotated to adapt to local geometry, allowing for efficient representation of unstructured meshes without storing mesh connectivity and while using far fewer primitives. Across a diverse set of data, VEG achieve high reconstruction quality, compress large volume datasets by up to 3600x, and support lightning-fast rendering on commodity GPUs, enabling interactive visualization of large-scale structured and unstructured volumes.