### SmallGS: Gaussian Splatting-based Camera Pose Estimation for Small-Baseline Videos

Dynamic videos with small baseline motions are ubiquitous in daily life, especially on social media. However, these videos present a challenge to existing pose estimation frameworks due to ambiguous features, drift accumulation, and insufficient triangulation constraints. Gaussian splatting, which maintains an explicit representation for scenes, provides a reliable novel view rasterization when the viewpoint change is small. Inspired by this, we propose SmallGS, a camera pose estimation framework that is specifically designed for small-baseline videos. SmallGS optimizes sequential camera poses using Gaussian splatting, which reconstructs the scene from the first frame in each video segment to provide a stable reference for the rest. The temporal consistency of Gaussian splatting within limited viewpoint differences reduced the requirement of sufficient depth variations in traditional camera pose estimation. We further incorporate pretrained robust visual features, e.g. DINOv2, into Gaussian splatting, where high-dimensional feature map rendering enhances the robustness of camera pose estimation. By freezing the Gaussian splatting and optimizing camera viewpoints based on rasterized features, SmallGS effectively learns camera poses without requiring explicit feature correspondences or strong parallax motion. We verify the effectiveness of SmallGS in small-baseline videos in TUM-Dynamics sequences, which achieves impressive accuracy in camera pose estimation compared to MonST3R and DORID-SLAM for small-baseline videos in dynamic scenes. Our project page is at: this https URL